Jackie Xu
Ms. Murtha
ENG3U
11 December 2014
The power of Family
	Is the importance of a father's love worth sacrificing one's mortality? Is it worth it to sacrifice something else for it? How severe will the effects be if one focuses too much on earning what they want? In the novel "The Kite Runner" by Khaled Hosseini, it constantly shows the effects of this issue in the theme "Parent and Child relationships". The protagonist, Amir, is a son who always wanted his father's love and affections. He tries everything to please his father and make him happy. Although ultimately he did win his father - Baba's affections, he slowly destroyed someone who always treats him like a bother - Hassan, because of Amir's selfishness. Amir's selfish attempts to win Baba, although successful, caused events of Hassan's rape, Ali and Hassan's departure and eventually, Hassan's life.
	To begin with, Amir is a boy who is often looked down upon by Baba. His father would rather pay more attention to Hassan instead of his own son. Amir never feels like that he iss Baba's priority, and he constantly tries to make Baba pay attention to him, and find ways to make him proud. However, he almost never succeeds. "'Well, that's very good, isn't it?' he said. Then nothing more." (Hosseini 33). This shows Baba's uninterested reaction to him after Amir wanted to tell him a story that he wrote. However, one of the instances when he finally earned Baba's pride was the year that Amir won the kite flying contest. However, at the same time, Hassan is in a situation where he was being discriminated by the notorious bully, Assef. At that moment, Amir could have done something about it, something to help Hassan. But he didn't due to the fact that he only cares about his rewards from Baba. "Maybe Hassan was the price I had to pay, the lamb I had to slay to win Baba."(Hosseini 82). By this quote, it is clear that at that moment, all Amir cared about was his father and how he will be able to make him happy. This shows how selfish Amir is on the fact that he only care about himself. In Afghan culture, the "lamb" is a symbol for sacrifice, and Hassan was the sacrifice that Amir made - a sacrifice for Baba. This leads to the event of Hassan being raped by Assef. If Amir was not so selfish, Amir's life would potentially be much more different. "The rest of my life might have turned out differently if had."(Hosseini 78). Sure enough, Amir did achieve what he wanted from Baba - fatherly love. This parent and child bond can be seen in the line "Then a smile played on my father's lips. He opened his arms." (Hosseini 84). This demonstrates the fact that Baba is finally paying attention to Amir for his accomplishments from the victory of the kite running contest. Although Amir is satisfied by his father's sudden affections, on the flip side however, was the rape of Hassan that is permanently embedded into Amir's memories. This shows Amir's trade off with Baba's affections for Hassan's identity. Hassan takes the rape as a sinful act and will take years, possibly a life time to forget. While on the other hand, Baba's love for Amir is only temporary. Overtime, the bond between the two reverted to the way it was before. Amir's selfish decisions ruined Hassan's purity for a volatile bond with Baba. After Amir gained Baba's respect, he wanted so spend more time with him, but at the same time, slowly trying to distant himself from Hassan. "Why not! he said. Lately, Baba agreed to everything I asked." (Hosseini 86). This line proves Baba's appreciation for Amir after winning the kite flying contest. At the same time, Amir uses this chance to spent some time with Baba alone without Hassan; this is because Hassan reminds him of the painful memory that occurred back in the alleyway. However, it is ironic for the fact that Amir himself was the cause of that. Amir asks Baba to if they could go to Jalalabad, and of course, Baba agrees without doubt. However, Baba also wanted to offer this opportunity to Hassan. Amir quickly makes up excuses to dismiss Hassan from the conversation, therefore, slowing ruining Hassan's opportunities to regain purity. "I gave a shrug and sank in the sofa by the fireplace. ‘He’s got a cold or something’,” at this moment, Amir is wants Baba to believe that Hassan is sick and unhappy and wishes that he can go on the trip with just Baba and himself. Clearly, this shows Amir's selfishness for Baba, as well as his jealousy for the way how Baba treats Hassan. "but then he'd buy it for Hassan too. Sometimes I wished he wouldn't do that. Wished he'd let me be the favourite." (Hosseini 54). This is a concrete example of Amir's jealousy for the fact that Baba treats Hassan just like how he treats Amir, making him feel insignificant to Baba. To fate, nothing is free in the world; Amir trades his happiness for Baba with his relationship with Hassan. After dismissing the fact about Hassan, Amir quickly uses the chance to have him go on the trip with just Baba. "'Well, the two of us can have fun together,' I said, Baba smiled." (Hosseini 87). From this quote, it is evident that Amir is trying to bring him and Baba's relationship closer. Also, by the line "Baba smiled", it shows a sign of approval from Baba that he would be glad to go with Amir, proving that Amir has achieved Baba's appreciation, at that moment at least. 
	Due to the fact that the image of Hassan's raped reappear constantly in Amir's mind, Amir starts to ignore Hassan and eventually finding ways to get Hassan out of Baba’s house. His deeds reveal more about Amir's character, a person who would bury his sins instead of fixing them, showing his imbecile actions. One clear event that indicated Amir’s dislike for Hassan was when he asked Baba if they were ever going to get new servants; “Baba, have you ever thought about getting new servants?”(Hosseini 95). This is an attempt Amir makes to get rid of Hassan because he thinks that would clear his guilt for what he did to Hassan. This however turned down Baba greatly as he exclaimed to him that will never happen; “…Hassan’s not going anywhere, do you understand?” (Hosseini 95). This event drastically shattered the parent and child relationship between Baba and Amir. “Things between Baba and me were already cooling off again. I think it was the stupid comment I’d made the day we were planting tulips,” (Hosseini 99). According to this quote, Amir realizes his foolishness on ruining his relationship with Baba, which all started with day when he asked Baba if they were going to disband Hassan. Because his initial plan did not work, he starts to find his own ways to separate Hassan from him and Baba. Amir’s next attempt to eliminate Hassan from him and Baba is lying to Baba about that Hassan has stolen his money; throughout the process, Amir creates more guilt for himself when his initial purpose is to hide is pre-existing sins. “I lifted Hassan’s mattress and planted my new watch and a handful of Afghan bills under it...Then I knocked on the door and told what I hoped would be the last in a long line of shameful lies.” (Hosseini 110). In this phrase, Amir believes that Baba will take Hassan as a sinful thief of stealing and will kick him out of the house. To Amir’s surprise however, Baba forgave Hassan. Amir cannot get over the fact that Baba forgave him after Hassan has committed the most sinful act to him – Theft. Baba once said, "There is no act more wretched than stealing," (Hossenini 20). The truth is, Amir was the serpent under the flower, and he was real thief who added more guilt to himself. But again, he decides to once again, bury his guilt. Dismissed the fact that Baba forgives Hassan, Ali decided that they needed to leave because of the fact that he is ashamed of Hassan and his sinful acts, he knows that lying is a crime. Therefore he's too ashamed to stay in Baba's house so decides that he and Hassan must leave. Amir, on the other hand has achieved his goal of abolishing Hassan from his life, but in a selfish, shameful and corrupt way. Before Amir attempted to betray Hassan by planting the money, he had a few thoughts to himself on how life would be better for both him and Hassan. He reflects on the way Hassan was discriminated by Assef and his friends, and decides that the best solution is to Separate himself from Hassan. "the same image kept flashing in my head over and over: Hassan, his head downcast, serving drinks to Assef and Wali." (Hosseini 108). This quote shows Amir's struggles to forget about what happened between Hassan and Assef: the rape, as well as the way he served drinks to him on Amir's birthday party. After thinking over the consequences, Amir decides that separation would benefit both him and Hassan. "Maybe it would be for the best. Lessen his suffering. And mine too. Either way, this had become clear: One of us had to go." (Hosseini 108). This is the line where Amir makes his final decision on isolating Hassan from him and Baba, he tells himself that it would lessen Hassan's suffering because he will no longer have to deal with Assef; at the same time, it would benefit himself as well since it will allow him to forget about Hassan in the alleyway. It will also open more opportunities for him to spend time with Baba alone. In the end, Amir was able to obtain his wish - getting rid of Hassan so he can form a better relationship with Baba. "We are leaving, Agha Sahib, Ali said." (Hosseini 112) As Hassan is leaving, Amir feels sorry, and regretful for what he did, but he is also glad for the fact that it's finally over. He knows that he has concealed all his sins and can finally spend time alone with Baba. "I was sorry, but I didn't cry and I didn't chase the car." (Hosseini 115).This was the last time that Amir saw Hassan alive, as his disgraceful actions to win Baba slowly ruined Hassan, and that will haunt him in the future.
	In the 1980s, Amir and Baba has fled to America to escape from attack by the soviets. In  America, Amir and Baba's relationship was much warming as they were offered better opportunities in America, such as the fact that Amir was able to go to and graduate high school. Eventually, he was soon able to go to college, and Baba couldn't have been more proud, to show his appreciation, Baba brought a car for Amir so he can drive to college. "I took the keys, stunned. I looked from him to the car. "You'll need it to go to college," (Hosseini 140). This line reveals Baba's care and support for Amir. At that moment, he finally realizes how much Baba had loved him all along.  However, the thoughts about Hassan comes back and haunts him when Baba suddenly mentions Hassan, "Then, Baba rolled his head toward me.'I wished Hassan had been with us today'" (Hosseini 141). This line instantly makes Amir feel sick as the painful images of Hassan the alleyway re-enters his mind. This reflects on how Amir gained happiness with Baba, but as a result of destroying Hassan. Although Amir at that moment has no news about Hassan, he was soon revealed the horrific truth by his old friend Rahim Khan. The story of Hassan is introduced by a call from Rahim Khan on the phone; the significance of this is call is that it changed everything for Amir, everything from Baba and Hassan's identities and Amir's life. Rahim Khan told Amir the truth about Baba and Hassan. Amir heard new of Hassan's death from Rahim Khan, "The blast echoes through the street of my father's house. Hassan slumps to the Asphalt." (Hosseini 231). Hassan is dead; Hassan's life is the final price that Amir had to pay for Baba's affections. Despite the fact that Hassan was killed in front of Baba's house, Amir at that moment feels a sense of guilt to what he has done that caused Hassan's death. Of course, Hassan's life was a sacrifice for Amir and his Baba's relationship. However, "There is a way to be good again," (Hoisseini 239). Amir knows that continuing to hide his guilt won't solve anything, so he has to find a way "to be good again". Although Hassan is no longer alive, a part of him still remains in Kabul, and that is his son Sohrab. At this point, Amir has to make up his past shame by bringing Sohrab back to America. This symbolically creates a new Parent and Child theme as if Amir was a father to Sohrab, risking his life to so save Sohrab is the price he has to pay to regain his love for his family. After Baba's death, Amir has to take over the role of being a father to Sohrab. "I want you to go to Kabul. I want you to bring Sohrab here." (Hosseini 232). At first, Amir refuses to do this, but then he realizes exactly why it was him that had to go. "I think we both know why it has to be you, don't we?" (Hosseini 233) Because of what Amir did in the past that caused Hassan death, he is one that has to go to Kabul and bring Sohrab back, this is what he has to do to "become good again", this is the only way to rebuild a happy father and son relationship - between Amir and Sohrab this time. Just like Baba, Amir has to make up his past crimes and lies by doing something good, and going to Kabul is his only option. In the end, Amir does succeed in bringing Sohrab back to America, shown by the line "We arrived home about seven months ago, on a warm day in August 2001." (Hosseini 376). Amir finally was able to make up his guilt for what Happened to Hassan in the past, but this time, his price was the risk of his own life.
	To conclude, Amir as a son who tries everything in his life to earn Baba's love and respect did eventually achieve his goal. However, his methods of doing so have slowly destroyed Hassan. His attempts to earning Baba became more successful each time, from the kite flying tournament to his graduation in America, and bring Sohrab home. However, at the same time, Hassan became more corrupted with Amir's every action, which includes his rape, his separation, and as last, his death. To sum up, family bonds are a very powerful aspect of one's life, and from time to time, one overworks to gain the appreciation of family while neglecting other important morals and values in life; decisions must be made carefully and thoroughly or else disaster and timeless guilt awaits.
 
